And she didn't give it up for a long time. She
had a roper with a gas stove with an oven on it. So
that was when we were uptown then. Alright, your
freshman year went okay. Do you remember what you
did at the end of that summer after you were a
freshman?
I don't know whether it'd be 33. Most likely we went
to Indianapolis. So you traveled? We traveled.
All right. Because Dad had to go to, he was
Secretary and Treasurer and the insurance
business was a big part of that. Was it better to be a
sophomore at A&M than to be a freshman? It didn't
make a difference to me. It didn't? How did your
routine in the Corps change? Well, see, I quit the
Corps in... Well, but you were in it two years. Two
years, well, no.
I was a day duck, and they just tolerated me. About
how many day ducks were there, I reckon? There was
probably not more than 15, so there were not very
many. And the... The only way you'd get out would be
to
have had previous military service. Or you
couldn't qualify. Or you lived near the campus.
No. Oh. Well, the only way you'd get out of the
military. Oh, oh, oh, the military. Was those two.
It was to have previous service or you
couldn't make the physical specifications. But
though you could be a day duck if you lived in the
community, couldn't you? Yeah.
You didn't change your major, you stayed with
that. Did you ever think about changing your
major? Were there some special courses you had as a
sophomore? Some special people? Oh yeah, we had
one I remember was in,
what would you call it, about
genes in people and animals. See, I'd take a bunch
of courses about cattle even chickens and things
like that. We had to do that and rinse with the
cattle. And then, what do you call it? They had a
special, they did nothing but teach that.
Genetics? Genetics. genetics. And I enjoyed
that. I enjoyed that. Did you ever have a chemistry
course from M.T. Harrington? No, I had it from...
No. I knew him. I knew him. Describe him. Tall
fella. I always thought... Pleasant
personality? Yeah. He always... He always
talked. I always remembered who I was. And Mrs.
Harrington always a lady? I never did have a lot of
contact with her, but I knew who she was. While you
were an A&M undergraduate, were there any
students here whose parents were famous, rich,
important? No, but in Tarleton I did. Who? I don't
know who they were. Oh. I taught, see I taught ag
engineering in Tarleton from 35 to 37 for two
years. And I taught and
had to teach farm shop, all the ag engineering
courses, what they had that they wanted, and So I
was in that farm shop, and we had a lot of kids that
came from the western part out there. And this
young man, he knew what he was doing. And so I just
asked him, I said, son, how big a farm do you have? He
said, we got a small one. ranch 24-6.
Describe the student body when you were a student
here. Describe the A&M student body. Where were
they from? What kinds of families? What kinds of
attitudes? They brought a whole bunch of people
in. All the...
Well, they had some what they called co-op houses.
Now those were real good pieces. That was real
good. Because what that did That brought a lot of
people to A&M that never would have gotten here in
the first place. And what it did, now, one of my, one
of the, we had,
there were five of us that really were in A&M. And
Thompson was one of them. but he couldn't get the
mass, so he went into
agriculture. But his mother, they were from
Throckmorton. Throckmorton. They came from
Throckmorton County. And she ran the house. The
co-op house. And they shipped in All sorts of food.
Everything that they could, you know. And they
tried to keep them again. And you could get a pretty
good job around here at 25 cents an hour. And make
some money. I know I made enough to pay my way all the
way through. All the fees. In general, was the
typical student body, were there some city boys
and country boys? They had some city people in
them. From where primarily? What cities? I don't
know. We didn't make much difference about that.
Most of them were plain old boys that come off the
farm. And... Was there a variety of their
backgrounds, of their ancestry, and where they
went to church? Were there some German boys and
Catholic boys and Lutheran boys? All of those
people put in
these places they've got up here for, you know, the
Methodists. They have one there. I know the
Baptists do, and the Lutherans do too. And the
Catholics, I think they have one up there. But they
kept houses open for the students, even though
they were in the dormitory. In terms of attitude,
would we have said they were liberal or
conservative? Very conservative. Hardworking?
Hardworking. But they're all Democrats. Well, in
that day, there weren't any Republicans around
here. That's right. And you know why, don't you?
Franklin Roosevelt. No. In my family, I know why.
No. My family thought Franklin Roosevelt saved
the country. Well, I didn't think much of his
domestic product.
They took the job of resettlement three years up in
Dallas. But what got me was when I read a book called
Marching Orders by Lee. And they described
Roosevelt in there. And he was the guy in line
behind all of that military.
He was the one that took He really did a job there.
But now the other reason is the treatment we got
after the Civil War. Oh, yes. I agree. The parents
and grandparents. Yeah, but you see the Negroes
got into the Republican Party. And so everybody
else was a Democrat. That's right. But the
Democrats we get, except for a few, which I know is
the yellow... Yellow dog. Yellow dog Democrats.
They're the ones way off on the side. But if you take
the regular ones, they're nothing but
Republicans. And that's why the change over here
recently has been So complete. Yes. Back to the
student body. Were there any rich kids? Oh, yeah.
In terms of being accepted, did any of those
differences matter to being an Aggie at that
point? Why was everybody so accepted? That's a key
part of A&M. Why was that?
Well, They beat the hell out of
you. Was it also that everybody went through some
of the same experiences? That's right. That's
right. They're all in it together. Do you remember
many people dropping out of school? Oh, yeah.
Were those the separator courses? No, chemistry.
Chemistry separated a bunch of them. The biggest
thing we've got so far is blend. We can sell it. When
did you start using your slide rule? When you were
taught it. When? When you were a freshman. Right,
but you didn't use one in high school? No. And do you
remember when you got yours? Yeah, still got it.
It's a duplex love load. And did you wear it on your
belt proudly? Yeah. Was that a kind of a mark of an
engineer? Yeah,
you had to have it. It's a kind of a... It's the
equivalent of today's computer. It is a computer.
Sure, sure. I've
got one that's even better.
How much is that? It's a big one like that,
circular. Oh, yes. Now, for when you're in the fan
business, like I was for 60 years, you just flip it
around. I mean, it'll do what this thing does. Now,
in athletics, you guys went to Kyle Field. Was
DeWare Fieldhouse already here when you were a
student? When was it built? I would think in the
early 20s. Oh, but when you were an undergraduate,
when you were a student here, it was... Already
built. Describe going to games, you and your
buddies, when y'all went to game in DeWare
Fieldhouse. Oh, I don't know. It was just a big old
place. Did y'all make noise? Oh, yeah. What were
the yell-eaters like then? Boy, they were
something. They were, they were some, and they
were picked out right. They were picked out right.
You had, and you had, that student organization
was set up by the, by the military. And those
officers, those military officers made that
thing run.
And I'll give you an example of it.
You know they got this march to the river that they
did there? You know what ever happened before? I
don't see it.
It happened in those dormitories across from the
Y. There were 32 of them in there. And Major Sloan
was the officer in charge.
And he was from the Naval Academy. He wasn't from,
he was from the Naval Academy. But he couldn't go
aboard ship. He couldn't, he just couldn't make
it. So they transferred him to the artillery.
She was a good woman, but tough too. They all are.
And so they would have had a big fling ding up there
in that courtyard in between that thing. They were
just raising all kinds of hell. And the major went
up there and, oh, somebody called him. We called a
major, and so he went up there. He told the cadet
officers to quiet this thing down and let's get it
in order. And he just, that's all he did. He just
issued an order and walked off. And so they didn't.
And so somebody called him again.
And he walked up there and he said, he told those
student officers, fall out, all of them,
everything. He called them out. He marched those
kids in formation all the way to the river.
That's where that got started. That's where it got
started. And that would have been about when?
During your student years? Yeah, it might have
been. It probably was, it probably was.
And so that's where they really got,
and he marched and turned them around, marched
them back. They got back ready in time to go to
breakfast. When you were a student, did the Corps
ever do anything that was rebellious? Did they
ever march on the president's house? No. The only
time they ever did anything, there were a couple of
times.
Well, you've got another problem, too.
In World War I, you could go to A&M for $1. You knew
that, didn't you? I'd heard that. You could. They
paid all the fees. but you had to give your you had to
pay your I don't know if you had to give them the
housing or not but you had to pay your bail and there
were those two buildings that were in front of the
main building there were two there and every one of
those guys came back with a .45
and on top of The dome is a hook like this. With a
light. 1,500 watts. Prexy's moon. Yeah. So what
they did, you could walk into that one on that side
and just push the screen open like that, and you
could take that old .45 and take a shot at it. And you
could fire one shot. at that thing, and there was a
hell of a lot of holes.
But that, and then they marked it on the wall. You
just put a mark like this, and they marked four of
them, scratches off this one. I walked into many of
those rooms up there. They knocked it out every
other night. Oh, really? Oh, so they did, they were
successful. The last time I saw that tried was in
1935. A company that I saw, they marched up there.
And a guy took a Springfield and tried to hit it.
That's the last time I ever saw that. Because one
day in Mr. Rudder's office, he mentioned that he
had tried when he was a student here. And I believe
he's class of 32. To knock it out? Yeah, and he said
that that was a very risky thing to do, but you
thought it was really good to shoot at it one time.
Yeah, but you always shot it with a .45. They used
the rifle in the last one. And another thing that
happened was that they had a problem with the flag
on the flagpole.
So you see that flag on that flagpole? The original
one, I think they changed the flag. It was pipe. It
had big joints in it.
And the one guy said he could climb it. See, they
just cut the rope right below the leg hole. And so it
went up. And so they, this must have been back quite
a while, because they came to me, we used to have
kite fights in Simpson Field. And everybody had a
kite, some pretty good size. And some of the
students knew it and then some of the people there
They were trying to get that flag down. It was some,
I don't know, it wasn't a U.S. flag or any kind of
flag. It was somebody's riding on it. So they asked
me if I could fly a kite up there. Or they would get me
a kite. Or could I build a kite? So I built a couch for
them. I built a kite and put a big old tail on the end
of it. And they filled it for the hooks, fishhooks.
They got it. Really? That's the way they got it. And
this was about when? Were you a student then? No, I
was a student. Oh. That was when I was in high
school. You were still in high school. Or in grade
school, I think. But we used to have pretty good
guidance like that. And Fermier, a kid named
Fermier, his father and mother died here. And he
was left here all by himself. That was a terrible
story. His father went, Fermier was his name. His
father, his wife died. And so the only way you could
uh send a telegram was to go down to this uh where
there was railroad across there was a tower and
they kept people up there and that was connected to
the western union that's the only place you could
see him and so uh he uh He went there and
got all the writing done for them to send out, and
then he just slumped over. My, my, my. That is
awful. He was a faculty member? He was head of the ME
department. Oh, my. His name was Fermier. I've
heard that name. That happens. So you know, you
know. While you were a student, do you remember any
tragic events involving other students? Oh, they
used to have some problems with, I know one student
got killed trying
to, but he was killed right up there by the entrance
of the college. they were hauling logs or
something, or something like that. He got killed
right there. That was with the
bonfire. But none of the, and during your years,
none of the presidents died of heart attacks or
anything like that?
No close family friend? No, no close family
friend. What about happy times? What about some
happy memories from your student days?
Well, you didn't have any
radio, no TV, so you went and played. Dean Bones'
office in front of his yard, there'd be five or ten
of us out there playing with each other. It might
have been some sort of ball or something like that,
but it was not really organized. When, as far as you
remember, when did your family get a telephone at
home?
In College Park? Did you all have one on the campus
in your home? Yes. Oh, you did? Okay. So you had a
telephone early? We had a telephone early, yeah.
Okay. The number was 125. 125. And was it a private
line or a party line? Party line. Okay. All you had
to do was just call up there, 125, please. And you
did it. Now, on the college, when we moved off after
World War II, it took a long time to get a phone. Oh,
sure, sure. We had to tell that
repairman that there was a bunch of money under
that.
Let's go back to hitchhiking. Share some of your
hitchhiking stories. Some of your happiest and
least happy. The only time I ever did hitchhiking
really was coming back from Brookings. That was
interesting. It was really interesting. So you
wore your Aggie uniform all the way back from the
Dakotas. Yeah. But you didn't hitchhike going
from here to Houston? No, we had cars. Okay. Okay.
Well, our family always had cars. We had the old
Huffmobile. We had a 21 Dodge. Then we changed to
the
Model A. We had four of those. And then we had the
first 1932
Ford that ever came into town. Ned got it. And then
we went 33s, 34s. And
when I, in 35, I bought a 35. We had a 35 Oldsmobile.
We had, and
then we started on the, and then we got a 30, six
automobile coupe. What was your favorite of all
those cars? Oh, a Ford man. I don't care what it is.
The what? A Ford man. A Ford man? That's a Ford man.
The others, all of those mobiles up to the more
modern ones, I had at the 41 and the remains of it are
still sitting on the farm out there. I always have
wished I had a about a 31 four-door Model A so I could
carry four adults in it. I've always thought that
would be great but I don't have the skill to repair
it and I don't know who today I can fix it. But who
else could? There aren't any of these young
mechanics who wouldn't know how to do that. Well,
if you get a good one and you get it cleaned up and
it's right, you ain't got no problem for a long
time. It'd be good. Now, during the Depression,
though, a bunch of Aggies, a lot of Aggie students
must have been very short on money. And so they had
jobs on the campus. What else did they do to try to
economize? Mostly they worked with the college.
You see, they had student labor. And the college
had an awful lot of funds for student labor.
When some of the Aggies had out-of-town dates, Did
any of them ever stay at your home? I've heard that
some of the campus families. They would arrange
with their date to stay with somebody else. That's
correct. It was a family affair. The whole college
was a family affair. Elaborate on that. Well, if
the head of the department He had an obligation to
go see,
well, first off, the first thing Dad did when he got
here, he got H.P. Smith somehow. He got F.R. Jones
somehow. You probably know F.R. And then he got
Pete Mumford. He got another fellow by the name of,